[Music]
what is up YouTube it's you girl Evelyn
and I am back with a season 1 recap of
Winona Earth I will be spoiling the
entire first season so proceed with
caution
Wynonna herb is the great-great
granddaughter of the legendary lawman
Wyatt earth but Wynonna is far from a
chip off the old block
she's the wisecracking hard living binge
drinking personification of a bad
reputation in glorious lis tight leather
pants waverly herb is why Nona's plucky
little sister with a penchant for
midriff-baring shirts she's also an
amateur historian and has spent her
entire life collecting Intel about these
strange happenings in their hometown
he's aptly named purgatory the humorless
but annoyingly hot deputy marshal dolls
is in purgatory investigating those same
strange happenings dolls works for the
black badge division of the u.s.
marshals which is kind of like a corrupt
version of the x-files and last but not
least is John Henry the heavy drinking
sweet-talking blue-eyed gunslinger
better known as Doc Holliday yep
that Doc Holliday Wyatt Earp's former
bestie made a deal with the devil or
something close and was granted eternal
longevity everyone knows that Wyatt Earp
shot a couple of bad dudes at the OK
Corral
but what Wikipedia fails to mention is
that during his career
Wyatt killed 77 outlaws with his gun
peacemaker and he was cursed for it
after Wyatt's death those same 77
outlaws were resurrected as demons aka
revenants which sucks for Wyatt's family
specifically his heir the oldest living
herb at any given time activated on
their 27th birthday the air is the only
person who can fire Wyatt's gun
peacemaker
thus sending the revenant back to hell
there's a catch when the current air
dies all their kills are resurrected
back in the day Wynonna and Waverly
lived with their big sister Willa and
father Ward the current air at the time
on the herb homestead all we know about
the missing mama earth is that she
apparently ran off when the girls were
young because well demons suck a group
of seven revenants stormed the homestead
and snatched both Ward and Willa
but as they dragged Ward away
twelve-year-old Winona fired peacemaker
and accidentally hit ward killing him
Waverly and Winona survived but poor
Willa was kidnapped by the remnants and
presumed dead
after the attack Waverly was taken in by
their uncle Curtis and aunt Gus but
Wynonna was committed to Saint
Victoria's psychiatric facility because
that's what happens when you tell people
you were aiming at demons but
accidentally shot your father once
Wynonna came of age she skipped town and
became somewhat of a drifter bumming
around Europe looking for a good time
and not much else
in season one Wynonna arrives back in
purgatory for her uncle's funeral which
just so happens to be the day of her
27th birthday it soon becomes clear that
her uncle's death wasn't an accident
considering that his head was ripped
cleanly from his body the Erb girls
recognized a revenant kill when they see
one and Wynonna retrieves peacemaker
from the bottom of their well but
peacemaker is not the only thing that's
been itching to get out of the well the
eternally young doc holliday climbs out
looking pretty darn good for a hundred
and sixty five-year-old it seems the
witch who blessed him with eternal
longevity also stuck him on the bottom
of the well because well reasons Doc's
on his own quest for vengeance against
the witch but he also sticks around and
offers the herb girls his conditional
help from time to time while Wynonna and
Waverly are getting theirs
Scooby Gang on trying to figure out why
they're revenants are acting up
Deputy dolls convinces Wynonna to join
the black badge division and the Scooby
Gang is upgraded to an entire wing of
the Sheriff's Department because black
badge has deep pockets and even deeper
connections we also discover some super
important revenant killing rules number
one revenants can only be killed if they
are shot between the eyes with
peacemaker and only by the air number
two if a revenant touches peacemaker it
burns them like a mother effer
number three revenant cannot leave
purgatory they are trapped inside a
triangle of land known as the ghost
River triangle and if a revenant does
step foot outside of the triangle it's
pretty bad number four revenant cannot
enter the herb homestead due to a Malay
a substance that Ward's off evil and the
homestead happens to be built on tons of
the stuff
the reason the revenants were able to
attack the homestead back in the day was
because they got their hands on a
talisman that counteracted the ammolite
and last but not least number five never
kill a revenant in front of human
civilians
unfortunately the black vag division
doesn't use neuralyzer x' to erase the
memories of civilians who've seen too
much they use bombs why no doubt
reluctantly sets out to fulfill her
mission as the earth air to take out as
many revenants as she can starting with
the seven while Wynonna and dolls
dispatch of mirror demons shadow
assassins and cannibalistic revenants
doc does some revenant recon and
discovers the identity of the big baddie
behind the revenant uprising bobo del
rey is the telekinetic leader of the
current crop of revenant and has a long
and complicated history with the urks
but in season one
is simply public enemy number one he's
working with constants cloody aka the
stone which aka the chick vet dropped
doc in the bottom of a well and left in
the rot Constance has something Bobo
desperately wants and will give it to
him if he brings her these scattered
bones of her two sons so she can
resurrect them Wynonna spends most of
the first season sending every revenant
she can find back to hell she gets some
help from purgatory police officer
Nicole hot who immediately catches
Waverly's eye and things develop from
there
sheriff needly also becomes an unlikely
ally and despite all of the revenant
killing Wynonna and doc still find the
time to get a little closer
and although Wynonna is hot and heavy
with Doc she's clearly crushing on dolls
- but the deputy marshal keeps her at
arm's length I'm guessing it has
something to do with the weird secret
medication he periodically takes that
makes his eyes do this the stone witches
plan to resurrect her ugly kids
eventually goes belly-up
thanks to Waverley and doc finally gets
his revenge when he and Wynonna bury
Constance up to her neck and salt by now
Wynonna has fully embraced being the
herb heir so of course while dispatching
of the revenant Jim Jones and saving the
young women in his cult
Wynonna meets Eve a young woman with a
limited memory who happens to resemble a
certain herb sister who was kidnapped 15
years ago that's right
big sister Willa is back and after
regaining her memory she's ready to take
up her mantle as the rifle herb heir but
a few things soon become apparent
Willa's kind of a [ __ ]
and she's definitely keeping secrets
apparently after the revenant kidnapped
Willa they held her in a big-ass tree
house where she was eventually freed by
our fave witch Constance cloutie but
days before at Willa's 27th birthday and
her subsequent heir activation Constance
erased her memory after that it's a
little fuzzy but somehow Willow was
stolen from Constance and ended up in
the care of the revenant Jim Jones
but what Willa doesn't divulge is that
bad boy revenant with a heart of gold
bobo del rey was all up in her business
in the tree house and the two of them
eventually fell in love which means
Willa's true allegiance isn't to the
herbs its de bobo and if that wasn't bad
enough we also find out that Daddy Ward
tried to take the easy way out of the
herb curse by making a deal with oboe to
attack the homestead okay stay with me
there's only one way for revenants to
escape the ghost river triangle the herb
air along with peacemaker must willingly
walk out of the triangle on winter
solstice
it seems that Ward was going to help
Bobo escape the triangle in exchange for
sparing his girls but things didn't go
quite as planned and after a Wynonna
killed ward
Bobo took Willa knowing she could help
him escape the triangle when she turned
27 and he would have gotten away with it
too if it wasn't for that pesky which
also sometime during all this craziness
Bobo tells Waverly as she's not really
an herb and because there's not quite
enough unexplainable things going on a
random old dude by the name of Juan
Carlo is going around dropping fortune
cookie knowledge on everyone but does
nothing to help because he quote-unquote
can't interfere eventually Willa and
Bobo get back together and Willa crosses
the line with peacemaker in her hand
but it turns out not only does the
triangle keep bad things from escaping
but it also keeps bad things from
entering like the world's largest demon
sand snake thingy the Beast grabs Willa
and Wynonna mercifully puts a bullet in
her sister's head before the thing can
tear Willa apart and everyone lived
happily ever after
JK the creepy folks from the black badge
grab both dolls and Bobo dolls because
he disobeyed orders and Bobo because
he's a revenant
but as they drive over the purgatory
line and Bobo begins to melt from the
inside out
Wynonna mercifully puts a bullet between
his eyes
but we all know that black badge doesn't
leave witnesses behind so there's an
active order to nuke purgatory what's
left of the Scooby Gang regroups and
before Wynonna can go after the bad guys
waverly touches a pool of the black goop
left behind by the sand snake demon
thingy and this happens and that is it
for the season 1 recap thanks for
watching and I'll see you in the next
one